# USENIX Security 2022

## FuzzOrigin

[FuzzOrigin: Detecting UXSS vulnerabilities in Browsers through Origin Fuzzing | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/kim)

>Universal cross-site scripting (UXSS) is a browser vulnerability, making a vulnerable browser execute an attacker's script on any web pages loaded by the browser. UXSS is considered a far more severe vulnerability than well-studied cross-site scripting (XSS). This is because the impact of UXSS is not limited to a web application, but it impacts each and every web application as long as a victim user runs a vulnerable browser. We find that UXSS vulnerabilities are difficult to find, especially through fuzzing, for the following two reasons. First, it is challenging to detect UXSS because it is a semantic vulnerability. In order to detect UXSS, one needs to understand the complex interaction semantics between web pages. Second, it is difficult to generate HTML inputs that trigger UXSS since one needs to drive the browser to perform complex interactions and navigations.
>This paper proposes FuzzOrigin, a browser fuzzer designed to detect UXSS vulnerabilities. FuzzOrigin addresses the above two challenges by (i) designing an origin sanitizer with a static origin tagging mechanism and (ii) prioritizing origin-update operations through generating chained-navigation operations handling dedicated events. We implemented FuzzOrigin, which works with most modern browsers, including Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari. During the evaluation, FuzzOrigin discovered four previously unknown UXSS vulnerabilities, one in Chrome and three in Firefox, all of which have been confirmed by the vendors. FuzzOrigin is responsible for finding one out of two UXSS vulnerabilities in Chrome reported in 2021 and all three in Firefox, highlighting its strong effectiveness in finding new UXSS vulnerabilities.

针对特定漏洞的fuzz，用于检测浏览器的UXSS漏洞

## BrakTooth

[BrakTooth: Causing Havoc on Bluetooth Link Manager via Directed Fuzzing | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/garbelini)

>In this paper we propose, design and evaluate a systematic directed fuzzing framework to automatically discover implementation bugs in arbitrary Bluetooth Classic (BT) devices. The core of our fuzzer is the first over-the-air approach that takes full control of the BT controller baseband from the host. This enables us to intercept and modify arbitrary packets, as well as to inject packets out-of-order in lower layers of closed-source BT stack, i.e., Link Manager Protocol (LMP) and Baseband. To systematically guide our fuzzing process, we propose an extensible and novel rule-based approach to automatically construct the protocol state machine during normal over-the-air communication. In particular, by writing a simple set of rules to identify protocol messages, we can dynamically construct an abstracted protocol state machine, fuzz packets resulting from a state and validate responses from target devices. As of today, we have fuzzed 13 BT devices from 11 vendors and we have discovered a total of 18 unknown implementation flaws, with 24 common vulnerability exposures (CVEs) assigned. Furthermore, our discoveries were awarded with six bug bounties from certain vendors. Finally, to show the broader applicability of our framework beyond BT, we have extended our approach to fuzz other wireless protocols, which additionally revealed 6 unknown bugs in certain Wi-Fi and BLE Host stacks.

针对无线协议 Bluetooth Classic（BT）的fuzz

## AmpFuzz

[AmpFuzz: Fuzzing for Amplification DDoS Vulnerabilities | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/krupp)

>Amplification DDoS attacks remain a prevalent and serious threat to the Internet, with recent attacks reaching the Tbps range. However, all amplification attack vectors known to date were either found by researchers through laborious manual analysis or could only be identified postmortem following large attacks. Ideally though, an attack vector is discovered and mitigated before the first attack can occur.
>To this end, we present AmpFuzz, the first systematic approach to find amplification vectors in UDP services in a protocol-agnostic way. AmpFuzz is based on the state-of-the-art greybox fuzzing boosted by a novel technique to make fuzzing UDP-aware, which significantly increases performance. We evaluate AmpFuzz on 28 Debian network services, where we (re-)discover 7 known and 6 previously unreported amplification vulnerabilities.

灰盒，对UDP-aware进行fuzz，找到amplification DDoS攻击能利用的amplification attack vectors

## FRAMESHIFTER

[FRAMESHIFTER: Security Implications of HTTP/2-to-HTTP/1 Conversion Anomalies | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/jabiyev)

>HTTP/2 adoption is rapidly climbing. However, in practice, Internet communications still rarely happen over end-to-end HTTP/2 channels. This is due to Content Delivery Networks and other reverse proxies, ubiquitous and necessary components of the Internet ecosystem, which only support HTTP/2 on the client's end, but not the forward connection to the origin server. Instead, proxy technologies predominantly rely on HTTP/2-to-HTTP/1 protocol conversion between the two legs of the connection.
>We present the first systematic exploration of HTTP/2-to-HTTP/1 protocol conversion anomalies and their security implications. We develop a novel grammar-based fuzzer for HTTP/2, experiment with 12 popular reverse proxy technologies & CDNs through HTTP/2 frame sequence and content manipulation, and discover a plethora of novel web application attack vectors that lead to Request Blackholing, Denial-of-Service, Query-of-Death, and Request Smuggling attacks

针对HTTP/2的基于语法的fuzzer

## Morphuzz

[Morphuzz: Bending (Input) Space to Fuzz Virtual Devices | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/bulekov)

>The security of the entire cloud ecosystem crucially depends on the isolation guarantees that hypervisors provide between guest VMs and the host system. To allow VMs to communicate with their environment, hypervisors provide a slew of virtual-devices including network interface cards and performance-optimized VIRTIO-based SCSI adapters. As these devices sit directly on the hypervisor's isolation boundary and accept potentially attacker controlled input (e.g., from a malicious cloud tenant), bugs and vulnerabilities in the devices' implementations have the potential to render the hypervisor's isolation guarantees moot. Prior works applied fuzzing to simple virtual-devices, focusing on a narrow subset of the vast input-space and the state-of-the-art virtual-device fuzzer, Nyx, requires precise, manually-written, specifications to exercise complex devices.
>In this paper we present MORPHUZZ, a generic approach that leverages insights about hypervisor design combined with coverage-guided fuzzing to find bugs in virtual device implementations. Crucially MORPHUZZ does not rely on expert knowledge specific to each device. MORPHUZZ is the first approach that automatically elicits the complex I/O behaviors of the real-world virtual devices found in modern clouds. To demonstrate this capability, we implemented MORPHUZZ in QEMU and bhyve and fuzzed 33 different virtual devices (a superset of the 16 devices analyzed by prior work). Additionally, we show that MORPHUZZ is not tied to a specific CPU architecture, by fuzzing 3 additional ARM devices. MORPHUZZ matches or exceeds coverage obtained by Nyx, for 13/16 virtual devices, and identified a superset (110) of all crashes reported by Nyx (44). We reported all newly discovered bugs to the respective developers. Notably, MORPHUZZ achieves this without initial seed-inputs, or expert guidance.

云生态系统。基于覆盖的fuzzing，针对虚拟化设备

## Fuzzware

[Fuzzware: Using Precise MMIO Modeling for Effective Firmware Fuzzing | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/scharnowski)

>As embedded devices are becoming more pervasive in our everyday lives, they turn into an attractive target for adversaries. Despite their high value and large attack surface, applying automated testing techniques such as fuzzing is not straightforward for such devices. As fuzz testing firmware on constrained embedded devices is inefficient, state-of-the-art approaches instead opt to run the firmware in an emulator (through a process called _re-hosting_). However, existing approaches either use coarse-grained static models of hardware behavior or require manual effort to re-host the firmware.
>We propose a novel combination of lightweight program analysis, re-hosting, and fuzz testing to tackle these challenges. We present the design and implementation of Fuzzware, a software-only system to fuzz test unmodified monolithic firmware in a scalable way. By determining how hardware-generated values are actually used by the firmware logic, Fuzzware can automatically generate models that help focusing the fuzzing process on mutating the inputs that matter, which drastically improves its effectiveness.
>We evaluate our approach on synthetic and real-world targets comprising a total of 19 hardware platforms and 77 firmware images. Compared to state-of-the-art work, Fuzzware achieves up to 3.25 times the code coverage and our modeling approach reduces the size of the input space by up to 95.5%. The synthetic samples contain 66 unit tests for various hardware interactions, and we find that our approach is the first generic re-hosting solution to automatically pass all of them. Fuzzware discovered 15 completely new bugs including bugs in targets which were previously analyzed by other works; a total of 12 CVEs were assigned

嵌入式相关，对unmodified monolithic firmware进行fuzz测试

## MundoFuzz

[MundoFuzz: Hypervisor Fuzzing with Statistical Coverage Testing and Grammar Inference | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/myung)

>A hypervisor is system software, managing and running virtual machines. Since the hypervisor is placed at the lowestlevel in the typical systems software stack, it has critical security implications. Once compromised, the entire software components running on top of the hypervisor (including all guest virtual machines and applications running within each guest virtual machine) are compromised as well, as the hypervisor has all the privileges to access those.
>This paper proposes MUNDOFUZZ, a hypervisor fuzzer to enable both coverage-guided and grammar-aware fuzzing. We find that the coverage measurement in hypervisors suffers from noises due to the hypervisor's asynchronous system event handling. In order to filter out such noises, MUNDOFUZZ develops a statistical differential coverage measurement methods, allowing MUNDOFUZZ to capture the clean coverage information for hypervisor inputs. Moreover, we observe that hypervisor inputs have complex input grammars because it supports many different devices and each device has its own input format. Thus, MUNDOFUZZ learns the input grammar through inspecting the coverage characteristics of the given hypervisor input, which is based on the idea that the hypervisor behaves in a different way if the grammatically correct (or incorrect) input is given. We evaluated MUNDOFUZZ with popular hypervisors, QEMU and Bhyve, and MUNDOFUZZ outperformed other state-of-the-art hypervisor fuzzers ranging from 4.91% to 6.60% in terms of coverage. More importantly, MUNDOFUZZ identified 40 previously unknown bugs (including 9 CVEs), demonstrating its strong practical effectiveness in finding real-world hypervisor vulnerabilities.

针对系统管理程序的fuzzer，基于覆盖以及语法

## Drifuzz

[Drifuzz: Harvesting Bugs in Device Drivers from Golden Seeds | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/shen-zekun)

>Peripheral hardware in modern computers is typically assumed to be secure and not malicious, and device drivers are implemented in a way that trusts inputs from hardware. However, recent vulnerabilities such as Broadpwn have demonstrated that attackers can exploit hosts through vulnerable peripherals, highlighting the importance of securing the OS-peripheral boundary. In this paper, we propose a hardware-free concolic-augmented fuzzer targeting WiFi and Ethernet drivers, and a technique for generating high-quality initial seeds, which we call golden seeds, that allow fuzzing to bypass difficult code constructs during driver initialization. Compared to prior work using symbolic execution or greybox fuzzing, Drifuzz is more successful at automatically finding inputs that allow network interfaces to be fully initialized, and improves fuzzing coverage by 214% (3.1×) in WiFi drivers and 60% (1.6×) for Ethernet drivers. During our experiments with fourteen PCI and USB network drivers, we find twelve previously unknown bugs, two of which were assigned CVEs.

针对WIFI和以太网驱动程序的hardware-free concolic-augmented fuzzer

## SGXFuzz

[SGXFuzz: Efficiently Synthesizing Nested Structures for SGX Enclave Fuzzing | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/cloosters)

>Intel's Software Guard Extensions (SGX) provide a nonintrospectable trusted execution environment (TEE) to protect security-critical code from a potentially malicious OS. This protection can only be effective if the individual enclaves are secure, which is already challenging in regular software, and this becomes even more difficult for enclaves as the entire environment is potentially malicious. As such, many enclaves expose common vulnerabilities, e.g., memory corruption and SGXspecific vulnerabilities like null-pointer dereferences. While fuzzing is a popular technique to assess the security of software, dynamically analyzing enclaves is challenging as enclaves are meant to be non-introspectable. Further, they expect an allocated multi-pointer structure as input instead of a plain buffer.
>In this paper, we present SGXFUZZ, a coverage-guided fuzzer that introduces a novel binary input structure synthesis method to expose enclave vulnerabilities even without source-code access. To obtain code coverage feedback from enclaves, we show how to extract enclave code from distribution formats. We also present an enclave runner that allows execution of the extracted enclave code as a user-space application at native speed, while emulating all relevant environment interactions of the enclave. We use this setup to fuzz enclaves using a state-of-the-art snapshot fuzzing engine that deploys our novel structure synthesis stage. This stage synthesizes multi-layer pointer structures and size fields incrementally on-the-fly based on fault signals. Furthermore, it matches the expected input format of the enclave without any prior knowledge. We evaluate our approach on 30 open- and closed-source enclaves and found a total of 79 new bugs and vulnerabilities.

基于覆盖率引导，动态分析，分析隔离区域的漏洞

## SyzScope

[SyzScope: Revealing High-Risk Security Impacts of Fuzzer-Exposed Bugs in Linux kernel | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/zou)

>Fuzzing has become one of the most effective bug finding approach for software. In recent years, 24×7 continuous fuzzing platforms have emerged to test critical pieces of software, e.g., Linux kernel. Though capable of discovering many bugs and providing reproducers (e.g., proof-of-concepts), a major problem is that they neglect a critical function that should have been built-in, i.e., evaluation of a bug's security impact. It is well-known that the lack of understanding of security impact can lead to delayed bug fixes as well as patch propagation. In this paper, we develop SyzScope, a system that can automatically uncover new "high-risk" impacts given a bug with seemingly "low-risk" impacts. From analyzing over a thousand low-risk bugs on syzbot, SyzScope successfully determined that 183 low-risk bugs (more than 15%) in fact contain high-risk impacts, e.g., control flow hijack and arbitrary memory write, some of which still do not have patches available yet.

## TheHuzz

[TheHuzz: Instruction Fuzzing of Processors Using Golden-Reference Models for Finding Software-Exploitable Vulnerabilities | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/kande)

>The increasing complexity of modern processors poses many challenges to existing hardware verification tools and methodologies for detecting security-critical bugs. Recent attacks on processors have shown the fatal consequences of uncovering and exploiting hardware vulnerabilities.
>Fuzzing has emerged as a promising technique for detecting software vulnerabilities. Recently, a few hardware fuzzing techniques have been proposed. However, they suffer from several limitations, including non-applicability to commonly used hardware description languages (HDLs) like Verilog and VHDL, the need for significant human intervention, and inability to capture many intrinsic hardware behaviors, such as signal transitions and floating wires.
>In this paper, we present the design and implementation of a novel hardware fuzzer, TheHuzz, that overcomes the aforementioned limitations and significantly improves the state of the art. We analyze the intrinsic behaviors of hardware designs in HDLs and then measure the coverage metrics that model such behaviors. TheHuzz generates assembly-level instructions to increase the desired coverage values, thereby finding many hardware bugs that are exploitable from software. We evaluate TheHuzz on four popular open-source processors and achieve 1.98× and 3.33× the speed compared to the industry-standard random regression approach and the state-of-the-art hardware fuzzer, DifuzzRTL, respectively. Using TheHuzz, we detected 11 bugs in these processors, including 8 new bugs, and we demonstrate exploits using the detected bugs. We also show that TheHuzz overcomes the limitations of formal verification tools from the semiconductor industry by comparing its findings to those discovered by the Cadence JasperGold tool.

硬件fuzzer

## Fuzzing Hardware

[Fuzzing Hardware Like Software | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/trippel)

>Hardware flaws are permanent and potent: hardware cannot be patched once fabricated, and any flaws may undermine even formally verified software executing on top. Consequently, verification time dominates implementation time. The gold standard in hardware Design Verification (DV) is dynamic random testing, due to its scalability to large designs. However, given its undirected nature, this technique is inefficient.
>Instead of making incremental improvements to existing dynamic hardware verification approaches, we leverage the observation that existing _software fuzzers_ already provide such a solution, and hence adapt them for hardware verification. Specifically, we translate RTL hardware to a software model and fuzz that model directly. The central challenge we address is how to mitigate the differences between the hardware and software execution models. This includes: 1) how to represent test cases, 2) what is the hardware equivalent of a crash, 3) what is an appropriate coverage metric, and 4) how to create a general-purpose fuzzing harness for hardware.
>To evaluate our approach, we design, implement, and open-source a _Hardware Fuzzing Pipeline_ that enables fuzzing hardware at scale, using only open-source tools. Using our pipeline, we fuzz five IP blocks from Google's OpenTitan Root-of-Trust chip, four SiFive TileLink peripherals, three RISC-V CPUs, and an FFT accelerator. Our experiments reveal a two orders-of-magnitude reduction in run time to achieve similar Finite State Machine coverage over traditional dynamic verification schemes, and 26.70% better HDL line coverage than prior work. Moreover, with our bus-centric harness, we achieve over 83% HDL line coverage in four of the five OpenTitan IPs we study—without any initial seeds—and are able to detect all bugs (four synthetic from Hack@DAC and one real) implanted across all five OpenTitan IPs we study, with less than 10 hours of fuzzing.

不是新的fuzzer，是一个技术。对hardware Design Verification (DV)技术进行分析，提出改进的替代方案

## Stateful Greybox Fuzzing

[Stateful Greybox Fuzzing | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/ba)

>Many protocol implementations are reactive systems, where the protocol process is in continuous interaction with other processes and the environment. If a bug can be exposed only in a certain state, a fuzzer needs to provide a specific sequence of events as inputs that would take protocol into this state before the bug is manifested. We call these bugs as "stateful" bugs. Usually, when we are testing a protocol implementation, we do not have a detailed formal specification of the protocol to rely upon. Without knowledge of the protocol, it is inherently difficult for a fuzzer to discover such stateful bugs. A key challenge then is to cover the state space without an explicit specification of the protocol. Finding stateful bugs in protocol implementations would thus involve partially uncovering the state space of the protocol. Fuzzing stateful software systems would need to incorporate strategies for state identification. Such state identification may follow from manual guidance, or from automatic analysis.
>In this work, we posit that manual annotations for state identification can be avoided for stateful protocol fuzzing. Specifically, we rely on a programmatic intuition that the state variables used in protocol implementations often appear in enum type variables whose values (the state names) come from named constants. In our analysis of the Top-50 most widely used open-source protocol implementations, we found that every implementation uses state variables that are assigned named constants (with easy to comprehend names such as INIT, READY) to represent the current state. In this work, we propose to automatically identify such state variables and track the sequence of values assigned to them during fuzzing to produce a "map" of the explored state space.
>Our experiments confirm that our stateful fuzzer discovers stateful bugs twice as fast as the baseline greybox fuzzer that we extended. Starting from the initial state, our fuzzer exercises one order of magnitude more state/transition sequences and covers code two times faster than the baseline fuzzer. Several zero-day bugs in prominent protocol implementations were found by our fuzzer, and 8 CVEs have been assigned.

没有协议知识下进行fuzz

## StateFuzz

[StateFuzz: System Call-Based State-Aware Linux Driver Fuzzing | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/zhao-bodong)

>Coverage-guided fuzzing has achieved great success in finding software vulnerabilities. Existing coverage-guided fuzzers generally favor test cases that hit new code, and discard ones that exercise the same code. However, such a strategy is not optimum. A new test case exercising the same code could be better than a previous test case, as it may trigger new program states useful for code exploration and bug discovery.
>In this paper, we assessed the limitation of coverage-guided fuzzing solutions and proposed a state-aware fuzzing solution StateFuzz to address this issue. First, we model program states with values of state-variables and utilize static analysis to recognize such variables. Then, we instrument target programs to track such variables' values and infer program state transition at runtime. Lastly, we utilize state information to prioritize test cases that can trigger new states, and apply a three-dimension feedback mechanism to fine-tune the evolutionary direction of coverage-guided fuzzers. We have implemented a prototype of StateFuzz, and evaluated it on Linux upstream drivers and Android drivers. Evaluation results show that StateFuzz is effective at discovering both new code and vulnerabilities. It finds 18 unknown vulnerabilities and 2 known but unpatched vulnerabilities, and reaches 19% higher code coverage and 32% higher state coverage than the state-of-the-art fuzzer Syzkaller.

基于覆盖率引导具有局限性，提出基于状态感知的fuzzer

## FIXREVERTER

[FIXREVERTER: A Realistic Bug Injection Methodology for Benchmarking Fuzz Testing | USENIX](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/zhang-zenong)

>Fuzz testing is an active area of research with proposed improvements published at a rapid pace. Such proposals are assessed empirically: Can they be shown to perform better than the status quo? Such an assessment requires a benchmark of target programs with well-identified, realistic bugs. To ease the construction of such a benchmark, this paper presents FIXREVERTER, a tool that automatically injects realistic bugs in a program. FIXREVERTER takes as input a bugfix pattern which contains both code syntax and semantic conditions. Any code site that matches the specified syntax is undone if the semantic conditions are satisfied, as checked by static analysis, thus (re)introducing a likely bug. This paper focuses on three bugfix patterns, which we call conditional-abort, conditional-execute, and conditional-assign, based on a study of fixes in a corpus of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs). Using FIXREVERTER we have built REVBUGBENCH, which consists of 10 programs into which we have injected nearly 8,000 bugs; the programs are taken from FuzzBench and Binutils, and represent common targets of fuzzing evaluations. We have integrated REVBUGBENCH into the FuzzBench service, and used it to evaluate five fuzzers. Fuzzing performance varies by fuzzer and program, as desired/expected. Overall, 219 unique bugs were reported, 19% of which were detected by just one fuzzer.

评估fuzzer的工具
